A React component is a reusable, self-contained building block in the React JavaScript library used for building user interfaces. It represents a specific part of a user interface and encapsulates its behavior, rendering logic, and state.

In React, components are responsible for rendering UI elements and handling user interactions. They can be composed together to create complex UIs by nesting components inside other components.

React components can be classified into two main types: function components and class components.

1. Function Components: Function components are JavaScript functions that receive a set of properties (props) as input and return a React element to be rendered. They are simpler and easier to read, write, and test. With the introduction of React Hooks, function components can also manage state and side effects using features like the `useState` and `useEffect` hooks.

Here's an example of a function component in React:
```jsx
function Greeting() {   
	return <h1>Hello, World!</h1>; 
}  
export default Greeting;
```

2. Class Components: Class components are ES6 classes that extend the `React.Component` class. They have more features and capabilities compared to functional components, such as local state management and lifecycle methods. However, they require more code and can be less concise than functional components.

Here's an example of a class component in React:

```jsx
class Greeting extends React.Component {   
	render() {     
		return <h1>Hello, World!</h1>;   
	} 
} 	   
export default Greeting;
```

Once you define a component, you can use it in other parts of your application as if it were an HTML tag. React takes care of updating and rendering the components efficiently, ensuring that only the necessary parts of the UI are updated when the component's state or props change.

A component can only return one element. In order to return more you will need to wrap the element in another element. While it is possible to use a `<div>`, or other element, there is a built in element that wont add another element to the DOM. this is `<Fragment>`. To use the Fragment tag all you have to do is write empty brackets and React will create Fragments.

```jsx 
	<>
		<h1>Hello, World!</h1>
	</>;
```
